LDAP Adoption tests (#970)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/modules/proc_adopting-the-identity-service.adoc

----
$ oc wait --for=condition=Ready --timeout=1m OpenStackControlPlane openstack
----

=== Configuring LDAP with Domain-Specific Drivers

If you need to integrate the {identity_service} with one or more LDAP servers using domain-specific configurations, you can enable domain-specific drivers and provide the necessary LDAP settings.

This involves two main steps:
1. Creating the Kubernetes secret that holds the domain-specific LDAP configuration files.
2. Patching the `OpenStackControlPlane` Custom Resource (CR) to enable domain-specific drivers for Keystone and mount a secret containing the LDAP configurations.

> .Create the keystone-domains Secret
> 
> This secret stores the actual LDAP configuration files that Keystone will use. Each file within the secret corresponds to an LDAP domain.
> 
> The following example demonstrates creating a secret for a single LDAP domain. Replace `<namespace>` with the namespace where your {identity_service} is deployed.
> The filename `keystone.conf.ldap.DOMAIN_NAME` should be updated to reflect your actual domain name (e.g., `keystone.conf.ldap.myldapdomain`).
> 
> First, create a local file named `keystone.DOMAIN_NAME.conf` (adjust filename as needed) with your LDAP configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To create the `keystone-domains` secret that stores the actual LDAP configuration files that {identity_service} uses, create a local file that includes your LDAP configuration, for example, `keystone.conf.ldap.myldapdomain`:

The following example file includes the configuration for a single LDAP domain. If you have multiple LDAP domains, create a configuration file for each, for example, `keystone.DOMAIN_ONE.conf`, `keystone.DOMAIN_TWO.conf`. 
+
```

[source,ini]
----
[ldap]
url = ldap://<ldap_server_host>:<ldap_server_port>
user = <bind_dn_user>
password = <bind_dn_password>
suffix = <user_tree_dn>
query_scope = sub
# User configuration
user_tree_dn = <user_tree_dn>
user_objectclass = <user_object_class>
user_id_attribute = <user_id_attribute>
user_name_attribute = <user_name_attribute>
user_mail_attribute = <user_mail_attribute>
user_enabled_attribute = <user_enabled_attribute>
user_enabled_default = true
# Group configuration
group_tree_dn = <group_tree_dn>
group_objectclass = <group_object_class>
group_id_attribute = <group_id_attribute>
group_name_attribute = <group_name_attribute>
group_member_attribute = <group_member_attribute>
group_members_are_ids = true

> ----
> Replace the placeholder values (e.g., `<ldap_server_host>`, `<bind_dn_user>`, `<user_tree_dn>`) with your actual LDAP server details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
* Replace the values, such as `<ldap_server_host>`, `<bind_dn_user>`, `<user_tree_dn>`, and so on, with your LDAP server details.
```

> Then, create the secret from this file:
> [source,bash]
> ----
> oc create secret generic keystone-domains \
>   -n <namespace> \
>   --from-file=keystone.DOMAIN_NAME.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the secret from this file:
+
----
$ oc create secret generic keystone-domains \
  -n <namespace> \
  --from-file=<keystone.DOMAIN_NAME.conf>
```

----

After creating the secret, you would typically remove the local configuration file if it's no longer needed or store it securely.

IMPORTANT: The name of the file provided to `--from-file` (e.g., `keystone.DOMAIN_NAME.conf`) is critical. Keystone uses this filename to map incoming authentication requests for a domain to the correct LDAP configuration. Ensure `DOMAIN_NAME` matches the name of the domain you are configuring in Keystone.

If you have multiple LDAP domains, create a configuration file for each (e.g., `keystone.DOMAIN_ONE.conf`, `keystone.DOMAIN_TWO.conf`). Then, create the secret with all files:
[source,bash]
----
oc create secret generic keystone-domains \
  -n <namespace> \
  --from-file=keystone.conf.ldap.DOMAIN_ONE \
  --from-file=keystone.conf.ldap.DOMAIN_TWO
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
* Replace `<namespace>` with the namespace where your {identity_service} is deployed.
* Replace `<keystone.DOMAIN_NAME.conf>` with the name of your local configuration file. If applicable, include additional configuration files by using the `--from-file` option. After creating the secret, you can remove the local configuration file if it is no longer needed, or store it securely.
+
[IMPORTANT]
The name of the file that you provide to `--from-file`, for example `keystone.DOMAIN_NAME.conf`, is critical. The {identity_service} uses this filename to map incoming authentication requests for a domain to the correct LDAP configuration. Ensure that `DOMAIN_NAME` matches the name of the domain you are configuring in the {identity_service}.

> .Patch the OpenStackControlPlane CR
> 
> The following command patches your `OpenStackControlPlane` CR.
> Replace `<cr_name>` with the name of your `OpenStackControlPlane` CR (e.g., `openstack`) and `<namespace>` with the namespace where it is deployed (e.g., `openstack`).
> 
> [source,bash]
> ----
> oc patch openstackcontrolplane <cr_name> \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Patch the `OpenStackControlPlane` CR:
+
----
$ oc patch openstackcontrolplane <cr_name> \
```

  -n <namespace> \
  --type=merge \
  -p '
spec:
  keystone:
    template:
      customServiceConfig: |                                                                                                                                                      
          [identity]
          domain_specific_drivers_enabled = true
      extraMounts:
        - name: v1
          region: r1
          extraVol:
            - propagation:
              - Keystone
              extraVolType: Conf
              volumes:
              - name: keystone-domains
                secret:
                  secretName: keystone-domains
              mounts:
              - name: keystone-domains
                mountPath: "/etc/keystone/domains"
                readOnly: true

> ----
> This patch does the following:
> * Sets `spec.keystone.template.customServiceConfig` - please make sure you are not overwriting any previously defined value.
> * Defines `spec.keystone.template.extraMounts` to mount a secret named `keystone-domains` into the Keystone pods at `/etc/keystone/domains`. This secret will contain your LDAP configuration files.
> 
> You may need to wait a few moments for the changes to propagate and for the Keystone pods to be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
* Replace `<cr_name>` with the name of your `OpenStackControlPlane` CR (for example, `openstack`) and `<namespace>` with the namespace where it is deployed (for example, `openstack`).
* This patch does the following:
** Sets `spec.keystone.template.customServiceConfig`. Ensure that you do not overwrite any previously defined value.
** Defines `spec.keystone.template.extraMounts` to mount a secret named `keystone-domains` into the {identity_service} pods at `/etc/keystone/domains`. This secret contains your LDAP configuration files.
+
[NOTE]
You might need to wait a few minutes for the changes to propagate and for the {identity_service} pods to be updated.
```
